docs/REPORT_SCHEMA.md, before:

# RedAudit Report Schema

RedAudit generates reports in JSON format. Below is the structure of the `redaudit_report_<timestamp>.json` files found in the output directory.

## Root Object

| Field | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `timestamp` | string | ISO 8601 timestamp of the scan start |
| `version` | string | Version of RedAudit used (e.g., "2.3") |
| `scanned_networks` | array | List of CIDRs that were targeted |
| `hosts` | array | List of `Host` objects discovered and scanned |
| `scan_summary` | object | High-level statistics |

## Host Object

Represents a single discovered device.

```json
{
  "ip": "192.168.1.10",
  "status": "up",
  "hostnames": [
    {
      "name": "workstation-01",
      "type": "PTR"
    }
  ],
  "ports": [
    {
      "port": 80,
      "protocol": "tcp",
      "state": "open",
      "service": "http",
      "version": "Apache 2.4.41"
    }
  ],
  "os_match": [
    {
      "name": "Linux 5.4",
      "accuracy": 98
    }
  ],
  "web_analysis": {
    "whatweb": "summary of technologies...",
    "nikto": "summary of vulnerabilities..."
  },
  "traffic_sample": {
    "pcap_file": "redaudit_192_168_1_10_TIMESTAMP.pcap",
    "packet_count": 50
  }
}
```

## Scan Summary Object

```json
{
  "total_hosts_up": 15,
  "total_open_ports": 42,
  "duration_seconds": 125.5
}
```

Commit message:

docs: Enhance documentation with encryption schema, update contributing guidelines, and revise manuals to include `python3-cryptography`.

docs/REPORT_SCHEMA.md, after:

# RedAudit Report Schema

RedAudit generates reports in JSON format. Below is the structure of the `redaudit_report_<timestamp>.json` files found in the output directory.

> **Note**: If encryption was enabled during the scan, the output will be a `.json.enc` file (binary AES encrypted). This schema applies to the **decrypted** content obtained via `redaudit_decrypt.py`.

## Root Object

| Field | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `timestamp` | string | ISO 8601 timestamp of the scan start |
| `version` | string | Version of RedAudit used (e.g., "2.3") |
| `scanned_networks` | array | List of CIDRs that were targeted |
| `hosts` | array | List of `Host` objects discovered and scanned |
| `scan_summary` | object | High-level statistics |

## Host Object

Represents a single discovered device.

```json
{
  "ip": "192.168.1.10",
  "status": "up",
  "hostnames": [
    {
      "name": "workstation-01",
      "type": "PTR"
    }
  ],
  "ports": [
    {
      "port": 80,
      "protocol": "tcp",
      "state": "open",
      "service": "http",
      "version": "Apache 2.4.41"
    }
  ],
  "os_match": [
    {
      "name": "Linux 5.4",
      "accuracy": 98
    }
  ],
  "web_analysis": {
    "whatweb": "summary of technologies...",
    "nikto": "summary of vulnerabilities..."
  },
  "traffic_sample": {
    "pcap_file": "redaudit_192_168_1_10_TIMESTAMP.pcap",
    "packet_count": 50
  }
}
```

## Scan Summary Object

```json
{
  "total_hosts_up": 15,
  "total_open_ports": 42,
  "duration_seconds": 125.5
}
```
